The Outlands is dangerous stretch of woodlands that separates the villages of [[Aldeia de Raiz]] and [[Aldeia de Espiga]] in the Cthonic realm of [[Mag Duinn]]. This dark forest grew rapidly in the fertile Vale de Raiz around the time of the great cataclysm. Due to the inherent danger housed in the darkness of this forest, there are many theories that it has roots in the supernatural, with many supporting the idea that it was intentionally fostered by the hag [[Theda Vidigueira]] and her wicked coven in an attempt to isolate the villages and make the realm easier to control.

# Landmarks

The Outlands are large and dangerous, which makes exploration difficult. As such, the region has never been fully mapped, though rough paths and roads have been cut between the primary villages. These roads are often lost due to the rapid pace of vegetal growth in the outlands, so most encourage navigation via landmarks.

- Piedá Riacho - a spring inhabited by a [[Naiad]] named Piedá, this small body of water feeds a small creek that runs parallel to the larger river. Though the stream can serve as a helpful navigational tool, it also serves as a source of danger, as the water sprite is not particularly welcoming.
- Mélusina River - Fed by an ancient Naiad that dwells in an old network of caverns, Mélusina is renowned for her vapid beauty and fickle moods. The river that flows from her spring is the largest in The Outlands, and travelers are often found dead along her banks.
- Gruta de Marrom - a single chambered cavern on the east side of the woodlands that has been used by a plethora of unsavory characters over the years, getting its name from the famed conman Garel Marrom, who used the cave as the base of operations for his smuggling venture for years.
- Grutas de Fauna - Once a home to the mystical creatures of the woods, this network of caves has since been overrun by vicious wolves under the leadership of a cunning Weredog.
- Wreck of the O Nazerack Expresso - The fabled ship of the damned, [[O Nazerack Expresso]], fell from the sky over Mag Duinn, crashing along the edge of the woodlands. Though the divine flesh that powered the vessel was dispatched, the wreckage remains.
- Campo dos Grimpas - A small camp set up in a clearing at the edge of the woodland where a number of displaced [[Grimpa Gloompa]] from [[Folgosinho]] and a number of refugees that had been enslaved on the Nazerack have sought shelter. The camp is surrounded by a thicket of living bramble that has become aggressive after being showed in the blood of the Primordial god.