One of the most iconic businesses in [[Porto Coelbren]], Maré Cheia is the fishmarket that services the burgeoning trade town. From this humble tent, the fish of the [[Abismo de Março]] are shipped to all corners of [[Amalthea]].

Beginning only as a humble fish stall run by [[Benta Ávila]], the younger sister of [[Eirenē Ávila|Councilor Eirenē]]. Benta put together a small stand to sell her husband's daily catch; her effusive and friendly demeanor quickly set her apart from the many other fishwives. When a storm claimed her husband, Benta put her efforts into organizing the cutthroat market into a more supportive structure in which everyone benefitted. In short order, she had developed the Maré Cheia - and perhaps more importantly - a code of conduct for the many people living off the sea.

While the vendors change with the season and the time of day, there are a number of famed fishmongers that sell their catch at the famous market.

- **Mila Saqqat**: 'The Queen of Sardines', Mila always seems to know exactly where to cast her net to haul in the perfect sardines. She sells these fish fresh, packed in salt or oil, and will even grill them up if requested.
- **Jôna o Baixo**: This short, ill-tempered man is always stained with the black ink from the squids he catches, and is rumored to have once been a cruel pirate captain. He sells fresh and dried squid, octopus and cuttlefish, as well as pots of ink which are coveted for their blue tint and their iridescent glow under the full moon.
- **Anbrosio Monte**: An unusual and slightly unsettling old man who claims to be able to communicate with fish; which has earned him the nickname of 'The Fish Whisperer'. His vague warnings, which he claims to have heard from the lips of his daily catch, are rarely heeded, but often come to fruition.
- **Belinha Perestino**: An unusual woman who farms an ornery breed of crab that emits a horrible odor when cooked. These crabs, though traditional culinary staples of the area, have fallen out of favor as food, but due to their aggressive nature and their propensity to fight, have become popular with sailors who set up underground crab-fighting rings.
- **Noé Macio**: An eligible bachelor who is very popular with the ladies, but won't take a partner because he claims to be engaged to a mermaid. No one believes his story, but often wonder where his catch comes from, considering he doesn't own a boat, a net or even a pole.