Born Elro Nadrash to a family of humble peasants in Faerun, at the age of three years old he was identified by monks from the Temple of the Everbeing Mahanta as the 9th reincarnation of their spiritual leader, Śrī Harold Klemp the First Ray. After a youth spent in deep and punishing meditation, Elro was finally prepared to take leadership of the monastery in his early 20's, when he was transported to the temple in the Astral Plane. 

Despite his insistence that he was no chosen one, and that he was ill-equipped to be a spiritual leader, Elro was very adept at his studies and found that he was able to master, with ease, what his followers dedicated decades, sometimes centuries trying to accomplish. During the annual Festival of the Calling, Śrī Elro performed the ceremonial astral projection, meant to make contact with their deity, the Everbeing Mahanta, in the infinite void of space -- a feat no previous leader had accomplished. Locked away in an ebony sarcophagus, Elro was shocked to find that through his ethereal projection, he actually made contact with Mahanta, but dismayed to find that the god was none other than the Dread Lord Bhaal masquerading as a benevolent god. During the 17 days of the festival, Elro was locked in his obsidian tomb screaming for help, begging for death to free him as Bhaal tortured his etheric body. 

Disenchanted by his followers unwillingness to aid him in his tortured state, and their insistence that contacting the Mahanta was a blessing that bestowed onto him the status of a blessed immortal, Elro left his temple and turned his back on his faith. The dark god still maintains possession of Elro's spiritual body, and torments him ceaselessly, causing him nightmarish visions, physical pain and dark thoughts. If Bhaal is feeling particularly vindictive, he can even wrestle control of Elro's body from him. 

The only way he can find to numb the torturous grip that Bhaal has on his astral self is by keeping himself perpetually doped up on Space Opium. As an ascetic, he owns nothing more than the clothes he wears, and relies on tithes he begs from strangers to keep his dark master at bay though the haze of the opium dens. 

His followers still revere him, and assume he left on a pilgrimage. He occasionally crosses paths with them.