More clinically referred to as The Second Age, The Common Light is an era defined by the vanquishing of the [[Cthonic Gods]] and the dawn of light in the land of [[Amalthea]]. This feat was accomplished when the children of [[Sadhbh]] descended from their celestial nursery to do battle with [[Smoladh]] and his army.

Widely considered to be the age of enlightenment where harmony ruled the land, this period of peace and prosperity is believed to have lasted for around 26,000 years, though this number is highly speculative. Though we still have records, monuments and ruins that were constructed during this time, there was no method of time keeping by which to measure the breadth of this golden age.

The most remarkable thing of note that transpired during The Common Light was the birth of the [[Tuatha]]; the mortal children of the Gods. This was a highly experimental time, with each God working their own likenesses into the beings they created. The oldest of these beings are said to be ageless, though there is little but legend to support this claim.

The peace of the Common Light began to unravel when the Tuatha took their hand at creating their own species, [[Human|humanity]]. This new mortal race was seen as inferior by both the Gods and the Tuatha, and were used to perform hard labor for the superior species. This oppression continued until the human champion [[Oisín Desterro]] led an uprising against the elder races; after which he attempted to banish the Tuatha to the [[Cthonic Remains]], though an injury sustained during his campaign inadvertently ceded the land of [[An-Talamh]] to the Tuatha.